## Lesson 07.02

### Arrow Functions =>

An **arrow function** is a function that uses the **=>** symbol instead of the **function** keyword. Other things to know about arrow functions:

- **arrow functions return _implicitly_**, which means that they always return a value--even when the **return** keyword is absent.
- **arrow functions** have concise sytnax:
  - **=>** is 2 characters, **function** is 8 characters
  - if there is only one line of logic, the curly braces **{ }** and **return** keyword may be omitted
  - if there is only one argument, the argument **( )** may be omitted.

Let's start by refactoring a "regular" function definition into an **arrow function**:

1. Define a "regular" function, which, though simple, has a paramter, so expects an input (argument) and also returns a value:

```
  function greetUser(user) {
    return `Welcome back, ${user}!`;
  }
```

#### hoisting
Function definitions are **hoisted**, meaning that they are lifted to the top of their **scope**, regardless of where they occur in the lines of code.

2. Call the function, supplying the expected argument. Since the function returns a value, set the call equal to a variable. This captures the return value; log the variable to see the greeting:

```
    function greetUser(user) {
      return `Welcome back, ${user}!`;
    }

    let greeting = greetUser("Zebra123");
    console.log(greeting); // Welcome back, Zebra123!
```

3. To verify that the function definition has been hoisted, call the function above the function definition; it still works:

```
    let greet = greetUser("Hoisted1");
    console.log(greet); // Welcome back, Hoisted1!

    function greetUser(user) {
      return `Welcome back, ${user}!`;
    }

    let greeting = greetUser("Zed1");
    console.log(greeting); // Welcome back, Zed1!
```

**converting the function definition into an arrow function**

4. Replace the word **function** with **const** or **let**. This turns **greetUser** into a variable declaration, so put an equal sign right after the name of the variable,:

```
  const greetUser = (user) {
    return `Welcome back, ${user}!`;
  }
```

5. Put the "fat arrow" **=>** to the right of the parentheses:

```
  const greetUser = (user) => {
    return `Welcome back, ${user}!`;
  }
```

6. Run the page. Now, the first function call--the one above the function--fails. This is because a fat-arrow function, set equal to a variable, is not hoisted. Comment out the first function call, so that it stops throwing the error.

**making the fat-arrow function even simpler**

7. Since there's only the one line of logic, we can make the fat-arrow function syntax even more concise. Get rid of the curly braces, the _return_ keyword and the parentheses around the argument:

```
  const greetUser = user => `Welcome back, ${user}!`;

  console.log(greetUser('Zed1')); // Welcome back, Zed1!
```

It is even easier to convert a function expression into a fat-arrow function, since it a function expression is already set equal to a variable:

5. Start with a function expression:

```
  const addNums = function(n1, n2) {
    return n1 + n2;
  }

  console.log(addNums(135, 246)); // 381
```

Convert the function expression to an arrow function:

6. Delete the word **function**:

```
  const addNums = (a, b) {
      return a + b;
  }
```

7. Add **=>** after the parentheses:

```
  const addNums = (a, b) => {
      return a + b;
  }
```

8. Since there is only one line of logic, delete **{}** and **return**. We have to leave the parentheses, because there is more than one argument

```
  const addNums = (a, b) => a + b;

  console.log(addNums(237, 365)); // 602
```

**when you cannot simplify the arrow syntax too much**  
If there is more than one line of logic, as in this next fat-arrow function, you have to keep the **{}** and **return** keyword:

9. Declare a variable, set equal to a fat-arrow function. Have it peform a few lines of code, so that we must keep the **{}** and **return** keyword. However, since there is only one argument, omit the **()** around the argument:

```
  const capitalizeWord = word => {
    let firstChar = word[0].toUpperCase()
    let restOfChars = word.slice(1); // isolate the rest of the word
    return firstChar + restOfChars; // concat and return the 2 parts
  }

  capit = capitalizeWord('elephant')
  console.log(capit) // Elephant
```

**arrow functions with map() and filter()**

The concise syntax of the arrow function makes it well suited for deployment as the callback function of array methods, **map()** and **filter()**
We will now do a map-filter chaining example, first as a "regular" function and then with arrow functons. The function specs are as follows:

- the function will take an array of strings and numbers as its argument
- the function will return a new array, **nums**, containing just the numbers
- "number-like strings" are to be converted to real numbers and included in **nums**
- if the callback has only one argument, its parentheses can be omitted

First, we'll do the map-filter chaining version with the **function** keyword.

9. Declare an array,**mix**, of strings and numbers, including a few "number-like strings":

```js
  const mix = ['apple', 3, 21, 'banana', 33, '55', 89, 'cherry', '63', "77"];
```

**filter()** returns all items that are true in a boolean comparison. Boolean comparison filters out 'apple', 'banana', etc. and returns only the actual numbers like 31 and stringy numbers like "77"

```js
// const mix = ['apple', 3, 21, 'banana', 33, '55', 89, 'cherry', '63', "77"];
const nums = mix.filter(function(e) {
    return Number(e); // filter out falsey NaN : 'apple', etc.
}).map(function(e) {
    return Number(e); // convert stringy numbers to numbers
})
console.log("nums:", nums); // [3, 21, 33, '55', 89, '63', '77']
```

#### fat arrow version of the above all in one line

```js
const numz = mix.filter(e => Number(e)).map(e => Number(e));
console.log("numz:", numz); // [3, 21, 33, 55, 89, 63, 77]
```