### Lesson 03.09 - Image Zoom, IIFE
#### - Image Zoom, IIFE, mousemover

### Image Zoom
In this project, we will make an Image Zoomer:
- The UI consists of two divs and an image
- The user mouses over the image
- An empy framed box called "zoom-window" follows the mouse
- The other div shows the closeup from the "zoom-window" 
- The function for this will be an IIFE

### IIFE (Immediately Invoked Function Expression)
An IIFE (Immediately Invoked Function Expression):
- automatically runs as soon as it is declared. 
- has no name: it's just function()
- is entirely wrapped in parentheses
- is called by another set of parentheses at the end
- runs immediately--but only once
- cannot be called again later, since it has no name

1. Declare the IIFE: everything is wrapped in parentheses, and then the function is called by a set of empty parentheses, right at the end:

    ```js
    /*   (function() { 
            // do stuff; 
        })()

    */ 
    
    (function() {
    ```

2. Get the image:

    ```js
    const fullImg = document.getElementById("full-image");
    ```

3. Have the image call a function on mousemove, that is, whenever the mouse is moved over the image, a function is called:

    ```js
    fullImg.addEventListener("mousemove", moveZoomFrame);
    ```

4. Get the "zoom-frame" div. This is the div that follows the cursor as a little framed box:

    ```js
    const zoomFrame= document.getElementById("zoom-frame");
    ```

5. Have the zoomFrame also call the same function. Having the image and the framed zoom window box both call the function makes the zoom effect smoother:

    ```js
    zoomWindow.addEventListener("mousemove", moveView);
    ```

6. Get the zoom image div for displaying the zoomed-in close-up of the image:

    ```js
    const zoomImage = document.getElementById("zoom-image");
    ```

7. Declare variables for the offset width and the offset height. These are for defining the zommed-in portion of the image:

- zoomImage.offsetWidth is 560px (or whatever)
- zoomFrame.offsetWidth is some small pct of that 560, in this case it is 80px (1/7). this provides for a 7x zoom effect
- both zoomFactorW and zoomFactorH are exactly 7 (560/80)

    ```js
    let zoomFactorW = zoomImage.offsetWidth / zoomFrame.offsetWidth;
    let zoomFactorH = zoomImage.offsetHeight / zoomFrame.offsetHeight;
    ```

8. Set the zoomImage div background image to be the image we want to zoom in on. The image itself should be MUCH larger than the div that contains it, since the zoom image shows a detail.

    ```js
    zoomImgDiv.style.backgroundImage = "url(images/_chinese-day-bed-2.jpg)";
    ```

9. Set the background size. The backgroundSize property has two values: width and height:

    ```js
    zoomImgDiv.style.backgroundSize = `${fullImg.width * zoomFactorW}px ${fullImg.height * zoomFactorH}px`;
    ```

### position properties: pageX, pageY, pageXOffset, scrollX
- the **event** object has **pageX** and **pageY** properties 
- pageX and pageY store the (x, y) coordinates of the cursor (mouse)
- pageXOffset property, equal to the scrollX property returns how far the document has been scrolled from the top of the window.
- the offsetWidth property returns the viewable width of an element (in pixels) including padding, border and scrollbar, but not margin

### getBoundingClientRect()
- the getBoundingClientRect() method is called on a DOM object and returns an object of 8 properties, pertaining to the object's size and position: **left, top, right, bottom, x, y, width, height**

Call the getBoundingClientRect() on the little frame box. The console should show the object of 8 properties:

```js
    console.log('getBoundingClientRect()', zoomFrame.getBoundingClientRect());
```

### renderZoom function
These 8 bounding rectangle properties are used to do the math that achieves the zoom effect.

10. Declare the renderZoom function that is called when the mouse is moved over the image. The frame also calls the function:

    ```js
    function renderZoom(event) {
    ```

11. Make the zoomFrame (the box that follows the mouse) appear:
    
    ```js
    zoomFrame.style.visibility = "visible";
    ```

12. Get the 8 properties of the non-zoomed full image:

    ```js
    const bounds = fullImg.getBoundingClientRect();
    ```

13. Declare a variable, x, set equal to a fairly complicated math expression:
- event.PageX is the horiz pos of the mouse in px
- event.PageY is the vert pos of the mouse in px

    ```js
    let x = event.pageX - bounds.left - window.pageXOffset - (zoomFrame.offsetWidth / 2);
    ```

14. If x is greater than the image's width, subtract the zoom frame's offset width from x:

    ```js
    if (x > fullImg.width - zoomWindow.offsetWidth) {
        x = fullImg.width - zoomWindow.offsetWidth;
    }
    ```

15. If x less than 0, set x to 0:
        
    ```js
    if (x < 0) {
        x = 0;
    }
    ```

16. Set the left position of the zoom window to be x pixels:
        
    ```js
    zoomFrame.style.left = x + "px";
    ```

17. Repeat the "x calculations" for y:
        
    ```js
    let y = event.pageY - bounds.top - window.pageYOffset - (zoomFrame.offsetHeight / 2);
        
    if (y > fullImg.height - zoomFrame.offsetHeight) { 
        y = fullImg.height - zoomFrame.offsetHeight; 
    }

    if (y < 0) {
        y = 0;
    }

    zoomFrame.style.top = (y+60) + "px";
    ```

18. Set the zoom image background position as negative x and y values:

    ```js
        zoomImage.style.backgroundPosition = 
        "-" + (x * zoomFactorW) + "px -" + (y * zoomFactorH) + "px";
    }

    })();
    ```
